1. Pre-heat the oven to 350°F. Coat 2 (9-inch) round cake pans generously with butter, then flour, tapping out any excess flour; set aside.
2. Sift the 2 ½ cups of flour, salt, baking powder, and baking soda together; set aside.
3. Whisk cocoa, food coloring, and water in a small bowl until smooth; set aside.
4. Beat the butter in a large bowl using an electric mixer on medium speed until creamy, about 30 seconds.
5. Add the sugar, ¼ cup at a time, beating about 15 seconds after each addition and scraping down the sides of the bowl as necessary, until the mixture has lightened in color and become fluffy.
6. Add the eggs one at a time, the vanilla, and the orange zest (if using), beating 15 seconds after each addition. Scrape down the sides of the bowl. Add the red cocoa mixture and mix until evenly incorporated.
7. On low speed, alternately add the flour mixture and the buttermilk, starting and ending with the flour mixture, until just incorporated. Once all the ingredients are incorporated, beat the batter in 10 to 12 strokes with a spoon or spatula if using cake flour, 2 to 3 strokes if using all-purpose flour. (Do not overwork the batter, as this will make the cake tough.)
8. Divide the batter between the cake pans and spread the tops evenly with the spoon or spatula. Bake until a cake tester or toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and let the cakes cool in their pans on a rack for 10 minutes. Slide a thin paring knife around the edges and invert the cakes onto the rack to cool completely, at least 1 hour.
9. For the icing, beat butter in a large bowl until creamy. Add the cream cheese and continue to beat until the mixture is fluffy, white, and very smooth. Reduce the speed and add the powdered sugar 1 cup at a time, beating for 30 seconds after each addition, until the mixture is creamy, fluffy, and smooth. If the frosting is too stiff, beat the milk into it to loosen it.
10. Ice the cake with the frosting and serve.